Heritage Science Dictionary, sociology is the scientific study of social behavior, its origins, development, organization, and institutions (AHSD, 2013). One thing certainly sure of, is that sociology a social science that utilizes different techniques of empirical investigation and critical analysis to expand and broaden the understanding of a body of knowledge and according to Ashley and Orenstein, this includes social order, social disorder and social change (Ashley and Orenstein, 2005). For most sociologists, the principal concern for them is to carry out research which at least should be directly useful to social policy and welfare, whereas others concentrate principally on sanitizing and refurbishing the theoretical understanding of social development. Subject area ranges from the micro stage of individual organization and communication to the macro stage of systems and the social construction (Giddens, 2007). It is important to note that Sociology should not be mistaken for other different common social studies courses which have little relation to sociological theory or social science research methodology. According to the US National Science Foundation, sociology is regarded as a STEM Field. (A STEM Field is a short form referring to scholastic disciplines of science, technology, engineering and mathematics) (National Science Foundation, 2012) Learning to think sociologically involves looking, in other words, at the broader perspectives which means developing the imagination. The study of sociology is not a mere routine process of attaining facts, data, or understanding. A sociologist is a person who is intelligent enough to break free from the closeness of personal circumstances and put things in a wider context. Sociological work depends on what the American author C. Wright Mills, in a renowned phrase, called the sociological imaginations (Mills 1970). The sociological imagination allows us to see that many actions that seem to affect only the individual indicate larger issues. For instance, divorce. “Divorce may be a very difficult process for someone who goes through it, what Mills calls a personal trouble. But divorce according to Mills, is also a public issue in a society like present day Britain, were over a third of all marriages break up within ten years. Unemployment to take another example may be a personal tragedy for someone thrown out of a job and unable to find another. Yet it goes far beyond a matter for private despair when millions of people in a society are in the same situation. It then becomes a public issue expressing large social trends” (Giddens, 2001: 4) Why study sociology? Sociology is an interesting subject to study both at undergraduate and graduate level. It prepares a student for lifetime of change by increasing your admiration of multiplicity, willingness to learn, adopting lifelong skills such as analyzing data’s, writing and transcribing. Build your knowledge about human behavior, social organization, culture, and social change. Are you captivated about human behavior? Are you interested in finding out what is going on around the world, Are interested in making positive and remarkable effect to policies? Then sociology might be your last bus stop……… Sociology will