Author: Flourish Itulua Abumere Organization: Staffordshire University Department of sociology Faculty of Creative Art and Technology Stoke-On-Trent. Staffordshire. I022618c@staffs.ac.uk Introduction We live in a modern society today that is powerfully perturbing nevertheless full of the most superfluous usual pledge for the future. Modern day societies are saturated with revolution and transformation which is manifested by deep social and political conflicts, nervousness and social divisions, as well as by the negative impact of modern technology on environment. How did this come about? Why are our situations of life so dissimilar from those of our forefathers? What trend will change take in the future? These questions are some of the most important worries of sociology, a field of study that always has an essential role to play in contemporary intellectual culture (Haralambos & Holborn, 2008). it Sociology is one of a number of social sciences (including economics, psychology and human geography) which endeavor to elucidate, give details and understand the actions of human beings in society. Distinct from some social sciences (such as is not subject to one economics) the life such as particular area of economy. Certainly, sociologists have studied an enormous and various sorts of topics including food, shopping, family, popular music, gender and sexuality, the body, globalization, conflict, poverty, sport, science, health, race, drug justices, war use, religion, migration, death, colonialism, housework, political issues, technology, inequality, criminal ethnic community, networks, research methods, identity and stratification. (Giddens, 2001) You can barely find a significant area of social life which has never been the focus of a sociological study. Due to the nature of sociology (as it takes into account numerous and so wide-ranging subject area), sociology is not easily defined as a subject itself. It is more practical and logical to define sociology in terms of its approach or approaches to explaining social life rather than its subject matter (Giddens, 2001) So what is sociology? All that been said, sociology can be defined as the systematic and objective study of human social life, groups and societies. As earlier noted, sociology is an amazing and undeniable venture, as it subject theme is our own behavior as social beings. The extent of sociological study is tremendously broad, varying from the analysis of transitory encounters between persons in the street to the study of universal social processes. Sometimes it’s possible for us humans to view the world like our own well-known memorable features of our own lives. Sociology reveals the need to take a much wider observation of why we are as we are, and why we act as we do as I previously mentioned. It teaches us that what we consider as normal, unavoidable, good, bad, false or true may not be such, and that the ‘givens' of our life are powerfully influenced by historical and social forces. just Understanding the subtle yet multifarious and philosophical ways in which our personal lives echo’s the contexts of our social experiences is fundamental to the sociological point of view (Giddens, 2001). According the American