Author: Flourish Itulua Abumere 

Organization: Staffordshire University 

Department of sociology 
Faculty of Creative Art and Technology 
Stoke-On-Trent. Staffordshire. 
I022618c@staffs.ac.uk 

Introduction 

We live in a modern society today that is powerfully perturbing nevertheless full of the most superfluous 
usual  pledge  for  the  future.  Modern  day  societies  are  saturated  with  revolution  and  transformation 
which is manifested by deep social and political conflicts, nervousness and social divisions, as well as by 
the  negative  impact  of  modern  technology  on  environment.  How  did  this  come  about?  Why  are  our 
situations of life so dissimilar from those of our forefathers? What trend will change take in the future? 
These questions are some of the most important worries of sociology, a field of study that always has an 
essential role to play in contemporary intellectual culture (Haralambos & Holborn, 2008).  

it 

Sociology  is  one  of  a  number  of  social 
sciences (including economics, psychology 
and human geography) which endeavor to 
elucidate, give details and understand the 
actions  of  human  beings 
in  society. 
Distinct from some social sciences (such as 
is  not  subject  to  one 
economics) 
the 
life  such  as 
particular  area  of 
economy.  Certainly,  sociologists  have 
studied an enormous and various sorts of 
topics  including  food,  shopping,  family, 
popular  music,  gender  and  sexuality,  the 
body, 
globalization, 
conflict, 
poverty,  sport,  science,  health,  race,  drug 
justices,  war 
use, 
religion,  migration,  death,  colonialism, 
housework,  political  issues,  technology, 

inequality,  criminal 

ethnic 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
community,  networks,  research  methods, 
identity and stratification. (Giddens, 2001) 

You can barely find a  significant  area of social life 
which  has  never  been  the  focus  of  a  sociological 
study.  Due  to  the  nature  of  sociology  (as  it  takes 
into  account  numerous  and  so  wide-ranging 
subject  area),  sociology  is  not  easily  defined  as  a 
subject  itself.  It  is  more  practical  and  logical  to 
define  sociology  in  terms  of  its  approach  or 
approaches to explaining social life rather than its 
subject matter (Giddens, 2001) 

So what is sociology? 

All that been said, sociology can be defined as the 
systematic  and  objective  study  of  human  social 
life,  groups  and  societies.  As  earlier  noted, 
sociology is an  amazing and undeniable venture, 
as it subject theme is our own behavior as social 
beings.  The  extent  of  sociological  study 
is 
tremendously broad, varying from the analysis of 
transitory  encounters  between  persons  in  the 
street  to  the  study  of  universal  social  processes. 
Sometimes  it’s  possible  for  us  humans  to  view 
the  world 
like  our  own  well-known 
memorable  features  of  our  own  lives.  Sociology 
reveals  the  need  to  take  a  much  wider 
observation of why we are as we are, and why we 
act as we do as I previously mentioned. It teaches 
us that what we consider as normal, unavoidable, 
good, bad, false or true may not be such, and that 
the  ‘givens'  of  our  life  are  powerfully  influenced 
by historical and social forces.   

just 

Understanding  the  subtle  yet  multifarious  and 
philosophical  ways  in  which  our  personal  lives 
echo’s the contexts of our social experiences is 
fundamental  to  the  sociological  point  of  view 
(Giddens, 2001). 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
According the American Heritage Science Dictionary, sociology is the scientific study of social behavior, 
its origins, development, organization, and institutions (AHSD, 2013). One thing certainly sure of, is that 
sociology a social science that utilizes different techniques of empirical investigation and critical analysis 
to  expand  and  broaden  the  understanding  of  a  body  of  knowledge  and  according  to  Ashley  and 
Orenstein, this includes social order, social disorder and social change (Ashley and Orenstein, 2005). For 
most  sociologists,  the  principal  concern  for  them  is  to  carry  out  research  which  at  least  should  be 
directly  useful  to  social  policy  and  welfare,  whereas  others  concentrate  principally  on  sanitizing  and 
refurbishing the  theoretical understanding of social  development. Subject  area ranges  from the  micro 
stage  of  individual  organization  and  communication  to  the  macro  stage  of  systems  and  the  social 
construction (Giddens, 2007). 

It  is  important  to  note  that  Sociology  should  not  be  mistaken  for  other  different  common  social 
studies courses which have little relation to sociological theory or social science research methodology. 
According to the US National Science Foundation, sociology is regarded as a STEM Field. (A STEM Field is 
a  short  form  referring  to  scholastic  disciplines  of  science,  technology,  engineering  and  mathematics) 
(National Science Foundation, 2012) 

Learning  to  think  sociologically  involves  looking,  in  other  words,  at  the  broader  perspectives  which 
means  developing  the  imagination.  The  study  of  sociology  is  not  a  mere  routine  process  of  attaining 
facts, data, or understanding. A sociologist is a person who is intelligent enough to break free from the 
closeness  of  personal  circumstances  and  put  things  in  a  wider  context.  Sociological  work  depends  on 
what  the  American author  C.  Wright  Mills,  in  a  renowned  phrase,  called the  sociological  imaginations 
(Mills 1970). The sociological imagination allows us to see that many actions that seem to affect only the 
individual  indicate  larger  issues.  For  instance,  divorce.  “Divorce  may  be  a  very  difficult  process  for 
someone who goes through it, what Mills calls a personal trouble. But divorce according to Mills, is also 
a public issue in a society like present day Britain, were over a third of all marriages break up within ten 
years. Unemployment to take another example may be a personal tragedy for someone thrown out of a 
job  and  unable  to  find  another.  Yet  it  goes  far  beyond  a  matter  for  private  despair  when  millions  of 
people  in  a  society  are  in  the  same  situation.  It  then  becomes  a  public  issue  expressing  large  social 
trends” (Giddens, 2001: 4) 

Why study sociology?  

Sociology  is  an  interesting  subject  to  study  both  at  undergraduate  and  graduate  level.  It  prepares  a 
student  for  lifetime  of  change  by  increasing  your  admiration  of  multiplicity,  willingness  to  learn, 
adopting  lifelong  skills  such  as  analyzing  data’s,  writing  and  transcribing.  Build  your  knowledge  about 
human  behavior,  social  organization,  culture,  and  social  change.  Are  you  captivated  about  human 
behavior? Are you interested in finding out what is going on around the world, Are interested in making 
positive and remarkable effect to policies? Then sociology might be your last bus stop……… 

Sociology will help you look deeply and neutrally into societal issues. It throws its focus to how societies 
balance  together  and  change,  and  the  cost  of  that  social  change.  A  study  of  Sociology  provides  the 

 
theoretical  tools  and  methods  for  understanding  the  social  issues  that  affects  society  be  it  group 
attitudes, values, behaviors, families, consumers, governments and organizations. 

What Can You Do With a Sociology Degree? 

  Human/Social/Civil  Services (Counseling,  Advocacy,  Case  Management,  Mental  Health  Services, 

Programming, Administration 

  Criminal Justice (Corrections, Law Enforcement, Rehabilitation, Judiciary) 

  Education (Teaching, Research) 

  Government (Social  Statistics,  Demography,  Public  Administration,  Policy  Analysis,  Research,  Program 

Development, Human Services, City Planning, Law Enforcement) 

 

Social Science Research (Research, Data Analysis, Demography, Market Research, Information Sourcing) 

  Environment and  

  Business (Human Resources, Management, Sales, Marketing, Public Relations, Office Administration) 

(University of Tennessee, 2009) 

References 

Mills, C. W. (1970). The Sociological Imagination. Harmondsworth: Penguin 

Ashley D, Orenstein DM (2005). Sociological theory: Classical statements (6th ed.). Boston,  
Massachusetts, USA: Pearson Education. pp. 3-5, 32-40 

Giddens, et, al., (2007). Introduction to Sociology. Sixth Edition. New York: W.W. Norton and Company. 
Chapter 1 

AHSC, (2007). Sociology. The American Heritage Science Dictionary. Dictionary.com 
http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/sociology Retrieved 5/8/2014 

Haralambos, M., Holborn, M., & Heald, R. (2008). Sociology and perspectives. Hammer Smith. 
Giddens, A. (2001). Sociology. fully revised and updated. Cambridge: Polity. 

National 
http://www.nsf.gov/pubs/2012/nsf12599/nsf12599.htm#appendix retrieved 05/08/2014 

(2012).  Graduate  Research 

Fellowship  program 

Foundation 

Science 

(GRFP). 

The  University  of  Tennessee,  (2009).  Urban  Studies.  What  can  I  do  with  sociology  major? 
http://www.umass.edu/careers/majors/html/urbanstudies.html retrieved 05/08/2014 

View publication stats

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
